
1. (AbTweak) Monotonic Property and (Tweak) Single Producer Property

In abtweak, the monotonic property basically stated that all
causal relations existing in a plan at level K are protected as
we descend the abstraction hierarchy to level K-1.

The descent corresponds to successive planning utilizing the 
levels of criticality assigned in the domain.  A correct plan is found
for all level K preconds, thus forming a correct plan at level K, and
then we preserve all of the (intended and side effect) establishments
at level K, add new level K-1 preconds, and apply tweak to this new level

Once the K level is 0, and a correct plan is found, there are no more
preconds to add, and we are finished.


In tweak, the spp basically states, that as we add an operator to achieve
a particular precondition, remember why we added this operator precond
combination, and never allow it to be clobbered.  ie if we add
A which asserts p- before u which requires p-, never allow anything
to be added to the plan that NEC denies this - via declobbering.

Tweak corrects plans by first selecting an unsatisfied  User precond 
combination and then establishing it in any way possible (New op or Exist)
and then declobbering this establishement.  The selection of operator
can be seen as PARALLELing the transition between k levels in abtweak - 

If we imagine that every precond in every operator in a plan has a
unique criticality value, then this corresponds to the order in which
tweak selects these preconds to be satisfied.

The Tweak-SPP involves rejecting any possible plan completion that 
violates a previously achieved EsT (at a previous k level), in exactly the
same way that AbTweak-MSP involves rejecting any possible plan completion
that violates a previoulsy achieved EST (at a previous k level) 
EXCEPT 
  that in AbTweak these levels are DECLARATIVELY specified in the domain
specification, and in Tweak, these levels are determined PROCEDURALY
by determine-u-and-p (to solve next).

Since we have observed a substantial savings utilizing SPP under tweak
in the "random"/procedural selection of criticalities, it would seem
obvious that a similar saving should be experienced by AbTweak over the
smae instances as spp-tweak.  It would follow that some order other than
random for selection of K values would (likely) supply a LARgER 
improvement in search saving - and in fact, we have already seen that
the monotonic property in abtweak is of little value if criticalities
are chosen at KNOWN optimal levels, while if crits are chosen at less
than optimal values - msp prunes a good deal of search space (these
correspond to an unusually bad (procedural) selection of next goal to
solve in spp-tweak).

Our results for spp-tweak have so far been using an approximation 
algoroithm to actual SPP, and thus it would seem beneficial and
interesting to modify tweak to be able to use the actual SPP 
heurisitic and observe these results.

Steve - Oct 11, 1990
 Based on a discussion of an idea Qiang had this afternoon.


2. Effect of # of preconditions in an operator template on performance

Consider the case of 3 hanoi (3 rings, 3 pegs, no other objects of concern)

Case 1

   (moveM x y)
   MOVEM from  peg-x  to peg-y
       preconds:   ISPEG peg-x  ISPEG peg-y
 
                   ONM peg-x
 
                   NOT ONS peg-x   
                   NOT ONS peg-y

Case 2

   (moveM x y z)                   
   MOVEM from  peg-x  to peg-y with s on peg-y
       preconds:   ISPEG peg-x  ISPEG peg-y
 
                   ONM peg-x
 
                   ONS peg-z

So we (could) take advantage of the fact that we are only concerned with
3 pegs in this DOMAIN.  In order for us to Move M from peg x to peg y, we 
must know that 

1. M is on peg x
2. Nothing is on top of M (only a Smaller ring could be, in this case S)
   Effectively this (clear m) precondtion could be expressed
   as knowing where S is.  If we know S is not on M than M must be clear.
   so NOT ONS peg-x expresses this fine.
3. Nothing (smaller than M) can be on the destination peg (namely S again
   in this case) - so we know that if S is not on peg-y we can apply the 
   moveM operator.  NOT ONS peg-y

OR 
   we can take advantage of the domain dependent fact that if
   NOT ONS peg-y holds and NOT ONS peg-x holds then it MUST be the
   case that ONS peg-z holds where z =/= x and z=/= y.

The effect of this is to reduce the number of preconditions a particular 
operator has (& intuitively reduce the number of preconditions that must
later be solved as goals)

BUT:

  The result of such an action is to make the OPERATOR MOVEM "easier" to
apply in that it has fewer preconditions that need to be satisfied in 
order to apply it in a given situation.

That is, the set of plans that exists in a search space in which the
operator can be applied GROWS and thus increaes the branching factor of the
search space?

Which is true?

Well - 3 hanoi tests with the simplified preconditions behaved WORSE than
the complex precondition ones.  (see tweak-results)
